{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.21.2509;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sl240\slmult1\lang9\f0\fs22 Tahv's personal advice:\par
Be willing to view others as your equal or as your better, but if they are your better, don't grovel about it, just accept it.\par
----\par
Corporal Punishment stares at you frankly. Then he takes a breath.\par
\par
"ARE YOU BLOODY SERIOUS, MAN?"\par
\par
"I thought you'd be the ideal man to ask," you say, not really convincing yourself.\par
\par
Corporal Punishment's moustache jiggles upwards in what you assume is a bitter smile. "The IDEAL man is someone who is UNAFRAID to show the WORLD who they ARE. And the ideal LOVER is one who can ACCEPT the ideal PERSON for who he or she TRULY IS." He taps your notebook with a meaty finger. "Write THAT down and tell it to your AUTOMATIC MAN!"\par
\par
You nod. "That's great, that's really great - thank you." You look hesitantly at the Corporal. "But..."\par
\par
"OUT WITH IT!"\par
\par
You wipe the warm spittle from your face almost without registering it. "That first bit, about being unafraid to show the world your true self... what if your true self is..." You think for a moment about a delicate way to put it. You give up. "What if, really, you're just a complete and total plonker?"\par
\par
"Then you're FUCKED, aren't you!" shouts the Corporal.\par
\par
You tap your pencil against your notebook. "You're a very straightforward person, aren't you?"\par
\par
Corporal Punishment's moustache quavers, and his face reddens. You prepare yourself for an incoming hundred decibels - but after a moment you realise that he's actually suppressing a laugh. "Go - snrk - go on," he says, with great difficulty - "Sling yer hook, before I PFFFFTHAHAHAHA - before I wet meself!"\par
\par
The guffaws break free as you pass the threshold of Basic Training. Well, at least you made someone laugh.\par
\par
----\par
"I'm probably being optimistic, here," you say as you flip out your notebook, "but can you tell me, briefly, what you think makes an admirable human being?"\par
\par
The Joker shrugs. "Doesn't take much. A couple of quid here and there means a lot."\par
\par
"Money?" You suppose you should have expected it to come up, but so soon? "Really, money of all things?"\par
\par
"No," says the Joker. "The spirit of giving. If the money itself were the only factor, then fifty quid from a millionnaire would matter more than a fiver from someone who's playing a text adventure game because it's the only game their knackered old computer will run." He shows you a smile. "The fifty-quid donations might be the ones that keep the lights on in the server room and food on the admin's table, but the five-pound donations are the ones that keep the lights on in his heart."\par
\par
"That's sweet," you grudgingly admit.\par
\par
"Another benefit of lots of fivers over fewer fifties is that it makes it easier to pick up great big handfuls, like this -" he opens the cash drawer and grabs a fistful of notes - "and just, you know..." he looks longingly down at the money, slowly bringing his hand upwards. "Just rub them all over your face. Like this."\par
\par
You head for the exit, trying not to hear the slobbery rustling sounds and giggly moaning. As you leave, a tall, skinny, hairy man wearing a pair of Admin Goggles heads past you and into the Lodge, muttering "Oh for fuck's sake, not again..."\par
\par
----\par
eBoy's Advice\par
"eBoy, have you got a minute?"\par
\par
"No."\par
\par
You close your notebook. Well, that one was easy. You turn to leave.\par
\par
"AllrightnowI'mfreewhatisit?" says eBoy. Possibly. It was something like that, anyway. You find yourself thinking of squirrels and cocaine.\par
\par
You turn back, and open your notebook. "My friend Rohit wants your opinion on what makes a person decent."\par
\par
eBoy takes a deep breath. "Wellthat'saverycomplexquestionwithalotofpotentiallycontradictoryanswerswhichIthinkismoresuitedtoadebateonphilosophicalgroundsratherthantheovertlylogical..."\par
\par
He continues talking for ten minutes. You watch, mesmerized. About two minutes in, his voice changes subtly - you realise that he's doing some sort of complex circular breathing. You wonder if he's ever played a didgeridoo.\par
\par
"...andwhichismoreyou'llbeamanmysonwhichIthinkissomewhatoldfashionedbutinkeepingwiththegeneralspiritofhisgenerationandyoureallyhavetoaccountforchangingviewsoverthedecadesandcenturies..."\par
\par
You nod.\par
\par
"...oncesaidthatgeesearewhitecrowsareblacknoargumentwillchangethiswhichIpersonallyfindquitepowerfulpurelyforitssimplicityalthoughwewillneverknowwhetherlaozisaidthewordshimselforevenifheeverexistedatallbutthat'sneitherherenorthere..."\par
\par
You nod.\par
\par
"...weoftentalkaboutfreeenterpriseasthoughitwereamantraasthoughsimplyhummingitorsayingit..."\par
\par
You nod.\par
\par
"...ommanipadmehum..."\par
\par
"Sorry to interrupt..."\par
\par
"Yeswhatisit?"\par
\par
"Have you got a pencil sharpener?"\par
\par
"Howmuchdidyougetdown?"\par
\par
You look down at your notebook. "I put down "Patience." Because of that bit you said about your wife." You get a wistful look. "And you put it so eloquently, too."\par
\par
eBoy grins. "ShesawonderfulwomanbutIjustcan'tkeepupwithherhalfthetime."\par
\par
You grin back. "I think I've got enough in here. Thanks for your time."\par
\par
"Noproblemmate."\par
----\par
"Actually I was hoping that you could help me with something else," you say. "I've got this Robot friend..."\par
\par
The medic shakes his head. "Aww, fer fuck's sake. Don't I keep on tellin' you, nobody knows how Robots work but Robots. I've no truck with 'em."\par
\par
"Yes, but it's not a mechanical thing - he just wants to understand us better."\par
\par
The medic sighs. "Go on, then. What does he want?"\par
\par
You grin, and pull out your notebook and pencil. "The question is, 'what makes a person lovable?'"\par
\par
The medic thinks for a moment. Then, looking off somewhere into the distance, he smiles.\par
\par
It's a smile that breaks through the wrinkles and engine oil, lighting up his face like a slow, warm dawn. It's a smile that speaks wistfully of a nervous first kiss, fingers running through hair warmed by the sun, the sounds of birdsong; smog and traffic seeming so far away. It whispers of growing old together, sharing every part of you. It tells you that someone once looked up over a bowl of cereal and saw a face reading a newspaper, and fell in love all over again, with someone who was already adored, and for no reason at all.\par
\par
It speaks of a life shared well.\par
\par
He sighs. Then he looks at you and says "Great big tits."\par
\par
You nod. "That's... that's lovely, mate, but..."\par
\par
"I mean, right big," he says, holding his hands out in front of his chest. "An' a fanny like a bucketful o' worms."\par
\par
"Fantastic," you sigh, writing it down. "I'll tell him that."\par
\par
"You do that."\par
\par
----\par
You head into Maiko's Cookery Academy. As usual, the air is thick with the scent of searing flesh and the chatter of a dozen students. Maiko notices you immediately, and gives you a smile and a nod. She stands behind a young male KittyMorph, her hands on his, guiding and feeling as he chops some sort of long blue vegetable into chunks. She says something to him, and leaves him to his studies to walk over to you.\par
\par
"Hey Cloaked Tahvohck, good to see you! How've you been? Here, test this." A piece of Blue Thing leaves her fingers and appears in your mouth through some bizzare sleight-of-hand, along with a certain amount of fur that you accept as inevitable.\par
\par
"Crunchy," you say, chewing - because, really, what the hell else are you going to do? - "and sweet."\par
\par
"You're always sweet," says Maiko, grinning. "Here for a lesson?"\par
\par
"I'm here for something more unusual today," you say, taking out your notebook. "I've got a Robot friend who needs some advice, and I'm looking for inspiration."\par
\par
Maiko nods. "What can I help you with?"\par
\par
"In your own words," you say, swallowing sweet and crunchy, "but briefly: What makes a good person?"\par
\par
Maiko's eyebrows do something complicated, and she looks away in thought. She picks up a knife and toys with it a little. She turns to you, looking sceptical. "Briefly?"\par
\par
"Enough that I can write down, anyway."\par
\par
"So," she mutters, almost to herself, "like, a sentence or two." She spins the knife on her fingertip. It catches the light and becomes a brief strobe before the handle finds its way into Maiko's hand.\par
\par
"Show me someone who respects life," she says, passing the knife from hand to hand, her eyes somewhere off in the distance. "All life. Someone who can make something grow. Take care of it. Treat it with kindness." The knife shines. "End it with dignity. Someone who can understand, thoroughly, that all life survives by consuming other life, and who can be grateful of their advantage. And I'll show you someone I could get along with just fine." She grips the handle, and looks at you. "But you're going to have a rough time of this, do you know why?"\par
\par
"Several reasons," you sigh, still writing, "but by all means tell me another."\par
\par
The knife finds its way gently to a magnetized strip with a clink. "Robots eat the sun," says Maiko, quietly.\par
\par
Your pencil marks a full stop. You nod. "They're the only animal - well, the only thing that walks around - that doesn't need to kill to survive. Not even plants."\par
\par
"Yup," says Maiko with a weak grin. "Good luck."\par
\par
"Thanks. I'm probably gonna need it."\par
\par
------\par
Sheila's Advice\par
"What makes a good person?" Sheila frowns. "Not being an arms dealer, for a start. You sure I'm the right girl for the question?" she asks, wearing a skeptical look.\par
\par
You pause. "Huh. To be honest, I never thought of you that way."\par
\par
"Oh yeah?" says Sheila, raising an eyebrow. Pieces of a dismantled crossbow lie in front of her. "How did you think of me, then?"\par
\par
You think for a moment. "I guess I didn't," you admit. "You've always been, just... y'know, Sheila. The nice Australian woman that we all buy our gear from." You smile. "I guess I don't know you as well as I'd like to."\par
\par
Sheila smiles back. "Well, this seems an ideal way to get to know each other. Now, let me think." She pauses for a moment, her finger to her lips, looking at the counter. "I know." She grins. "This applies more to blokes, but anyway." She looks back up at you. "You can tell a lot about a man by how he handles his knickers."\par
\par
You nod, taking out your notebook.\par
\par
"I had a bloke in here the other day, you could tell he was new. Young fellah, pretty cute, nice bod, came in like this -" she covers her crotch and mimes a hunched-over walk - "an' asks if we sell pants, since his Pants Request Form had gotten lost. Y'know, like they all do. An' I just smile and show him the standard-issue Frilly Pink Panties, and his face, well - it were like someone'd just shat out his hamster. He hands over his tokens and I hand over the pants and he just, sort of, like, squirms into 'em, all shy an' that. And just as he's turnin' to leave, this great big hulkin' brute of a man walks in, blood all up his chest, hairy, muscles on his muscles." She smiles, a blush forming. "All sweaty. An' his bandolier crossed over his chest, an' his backpack on his back, an' his standard-issue knickers on as well. Only his are different - they're faded, and stained with grass and blood, and ripped up a bit." She turns to you. "Now, this guy's not much to look at, you understand. He's not really what you'd call 'Attractive.' Matter of fact, he's a bit of a munter. But it's how he moves. It's how he walks into a room an' sets it alight with his presence. He ain't even all that muscly, he just carries himself like someone who is. He's got three claw marks on his left pectoral, and he's carrying an axe so notched it's practically serrated. I think his name's Steve, he was a call centre worker or something. And he made those knickers his, y'know? He owned those knickers. They couldn't embarrass him any more than they could embarrass a tiger." She looks down, her ears turning red. "I didn't even watch the hot young bloke's arse on the way out, I was so taken with 'im."\par
\par
"Guy sounds like he'd be a hit with the audience," you say.\par
\par
"He was a hit with me, I'll tell you," says Sheila. "He was like a KittyMorph would be, if they took it seriously. Y'know, you can sell a KittyMorph lad a pair of knickers and he'll wear them just fine, and even manage to look good in 'em because it just doesn't occur to them that they should look silly. They don't really understand clothes to begin with. I think they only wear the panties to fit in. But this bloke... he lit up the room. And he knew that he should by all rights look ridiculous, and his demeanour acknowledged that, and then put it to one side in case he felt like joking around later on."\par
\par
She pauses for a moment as she fiddles with the crossbow bolt. "As the cute guy was leaving, Steve nodded at him. Just, y'know, the slightest little bit, but there was a lot in his eyes. Reassurance, and understanding, and empathy, that kind of thing - or at least that's what I read in it." She smiles weakly. "I'd like to say that something passed between 'em and the cute bloke stood up straight and started wearing his panties with pride, but..." she glances at you. "That only really happens on TV."\par
\par
You look at what you've got written down. "That's great. Anything else you think Rohit should know?"\par
\par
Sheila thinks for a moment. "Don't be a dick, and don't take it seriously." She smiles. "I always like a guy with a sense of humour."\par
\par
------\par
The Watcher\par
"Are you serious?" says The Watcher.\par
\par
You nod.\par
\par
"You're asking me what makes a loveable person. Now. Here, in this place. Me."\par
\par
"Yeah," you say, smiling. "Or what makes a person likeable. Either the sort of person you'd like to date, or the sort of person you'd like to just hang out with, or your ideal of people in general if you're feeling particularly philosophical..."\par
\par
"I think an ideal candidate for respect," says The Watcher, taking her glasses off to polish them, "would be someone who could look at an environment like this -" she gestures to the banks of monitors and rusted cages around her - "and reconsider whether, given the context, questions about the idealised face of humanity are entirely appropriate." She puts the glasses back on, and gives you a look. "Don't you?"\par
\par
You nod. "Yes."\par
\par
You stare at each other for a moment.\par
\par
"Well?" asks The Watcher, softly.\par
\par
"I saw the context." You take a deep breath. "And I reconsidered."\par
\par
The Watcher rests her chin on her hands, and looks at you. In the darkness, her face is lit by the light from her monitors - made of candescent bulbs mounted on spinning rods, they conspire with her persistence of vision to trick her into seeing a picture. The harsh amber light flickers on her skin like a vacuum-tube candle. Behind the rapid flashes reflected across her glasses, her blue eyes appear ashen; her red turtleneck polluted to the colour of old, dusty engine oil.\par
\par
The breeze generated from her monitors plays in her hair. When she speaks through the buffeting, her voice reaches your ears distorted, chopped into pieces.\par
\par
"And you came to the same decision."\par
\par
You shrug. "If anything, it confirmed it."\par
\par
She smiles. "I see." She leans back in her chair. Her glasses become two perfectly round, flickering orange circles. "Then I think you should disregard what everyone else says to you, and write your friend a program according to what you know." She folds her arms. "I've seen you, you know. On my cameras. Talking to him. Walking all the way from Cyber City back to NewHome. And now, actually asking people," she holds a finger in the air, "for their help in writing him a protocol. Like you're taking it seriously. Like it's a big deal."\par
\par
"I think he intends to abide by it," you say, "So it really kind of is. To him, at least."\par
\par
"And to you," says The Watcher. "He's put his personality in your hands. It's a big responsibility."\par
\par
You nod. "Any advice?"\par
\par
"I think I'm already talking to a higher authority in being personable." The Watcher grins. "After all, you've got the spine to come and talk to me. In fact, tell him that." She leans forward and points to your notebook. "Tell him, 'Go and talk to the scariest and least approachable woman on the Island, and ask her where she gets her boots.' It'd be good practice for him. Now scram," she says, putting on her headphones, "I've got an Island to Watch."\par
\par
You wonder as you walk away just how much of that was genuine, and how much was for the benefit of whoever happened to be watching The Watcher.\par
}
 