{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Bio: Storm\
\
Backstory\
`~Storm was born in the rural Rocky Mountains, near the old city of Darby, Montana, on January 11th, 2089. Technically, it was no longer Montana, but a territory of the "North-Western Support Collation;" a small, yet rapidly growing organization. The primary purpose of the collation was to help cities and towns re-organize after the EMP bombing, though some of their untold intentions may be for a more sinister cause. At this point in time, they had moved into the surrounding communities, implementing  leaders, though 'puppets' may be a better word to describe them. Mo one knows quite what to think of them as every community seems to react differently; some loved the occupation and guidance, while others fiercely resisted. \
`q"I will let others decide for themselves of what to think of the collation. It is not my place to say..."`~\
\
Growing up after the EMP,  Storm had no problem adjusting without the technologies such as computers, internet, even dependable lighting like some of the older members of the community. Even so, she had a deep fascination with the tools and technology of old. She could spend days at a time dissecting damaged and destroyed machines, perhaps not to find ways to re-build them, but for discovery nonetheless. \
`q"It was fun, just taking apart contraptions. I may not have not had the slightest clue about how they worked, or sometimes, even what they were, but it was still fascinating."`~\
\
Lacking any sort of formal education outside the basic reading skills her mother managed to teach, she willed herself to learn more, actually enjoying learning new things. When she wasn't dismantling some new contraption, she was reading. Not books of roman or mystery, but ones of science, mathematics, history, and literature. With such an interest in learning, she unknowingly distanced herself from the community around her. Everyone but her mother, who pushed her to continue learning. \
`q"I suppose that is what happens when your mother is a ex-high school instructor\'85. whatever a high school is\'85"`~\
\
In this time of reconstruction and repair, no one was left out when helping. Never very useful with construction or other heavy labor jobs, she made up with being much more than adept with a bow and arrow. This wasn't not overlook, and as soon as she was old enough to be considered capable, Storm was placed in hunting parties. At first, she was comparably slow, making mistakes that the others considered pitiful. Just as she was about to give up, and, even worse, transferred back to hard labor, someone was transferred from another hunting group, someone who would bring her out of a this slump. Throughout their time in the group, Storm worked hard to learn as much as she could from her new-found friend. Eventually, she began outperforming others in the group, but never quite reechoed the top of the proverbial ladder. The \
}